---
title: Hello World!
categories:
- General
excerpt: |
  A quick introduction to my website and my blog
---

Hi there!

My name is Brian Fu. I am currently (as of the time of me writing this blog post) a student of UC Berkeley majoring in EECS, and an aspiring Software Engineer. 

Right now, I think I will mainly post book reviews and Chinese/Korean drama reviews, as well as some posts about big events that happen in my life. The book/drama reviews might come a bit slow in the beginning, since I am having a really busy schedule this semester in school, but I am hoping to get them out at a reasonable pace eventually. From time to time, I am also hoping to write about things I've learned, topics that interest me, or just hobbies that I am picking up. Lastly, I also expect to occasionally make a few insightful posts about things I’ve realized in life, or maybe things I am grateful for or amused about, and other thoughts I am having in the same vein. I am hoping to be vulnerable when I am writing about my thoughts, but we will see how that turns out.

Now, for those people who know me well, starting a blog is one of the last things they would expect me to do. I am usually a very reserved and private person, and I really dislike sharing anything about my life or personal stories other than the occasional banter over the bad teachers we’ve had in high school. So why did I decide to start a personal blog? There are a couple reasons. I am trying to get back into reading, so I am hoping that telling the world I am going to create a blog about reading will force me to read more books. This has so far worked, as I have started to read the book _Thinking, Fast and Slow_ by Daniel Kahneman. It would also be a good way to test my understanding of the book and make sure that I have something to take away from the book, as I think it’d be pretty hard to write a review about a book I didn’t understand. Chinese/Korean dramas are a bit similar as well, except that I didn’t need this blog as motivation to watch them :D. I think it’d also be nice for my friends or other people who are interested to follow along and see what dramas I am watching, and to see what my thoughts about the drama are. It would be fun for me as well, as it would provide a space for me to rage about dramas that I got angry at, and a space for me to shower loads of praise upon dramas I really liked. However, arguably one of the bigger factors for why I am starting this blog is more of a personal reason, and that relates to the posts that are just my thoughts. To be able to make these more personal posts, I would need to make sure that all my thoughts are collected well and that I am well composed with good control over my thoughts and emotions. Thus, I am hoping that when I feel like my thoughts start to become messy or my emotions are flying everywhere, I am just able to sit down and think, reflect, study, engage in myself, and take a moment to calm and recollect both my heart and my mind, all under the guise of writing a blog post. 

So who should read my blog posts? Everyone! While I don’t intend for there to be too much traffic to my blog, I still hope that people who are interested in the things that I write about can share it and find my posts an interesting read. Don’t feel shy about connecting with me as well! Furthermore, people who know me in real life can use my blogs to get to know more about me, my thoughts, and my life – things that become more difficult for me to share in person. People share a lot about themselves to me, and now it’s time for me to start sharing back as well.

Thanks for reading this far, and I hope that you can stick around and perhaps learn something from following my blogs! [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UFi9NlQM0XA "Video of a monkey spinning"){:target="_blank"} is a random funny video that I watched recently. Feel free to contact me for anything – my email is in the bottom right at the footer of this website. 
